Tonight, our new CBS News reporting.
Russian troops move into the attack position
as the US closes its embassy in Ukraine's capital.
Putin's fighter jets and warships continue war games,
but the signals tonight that there's hope for diplomacy
and our report from inside Ukraine's biggest bomb
shelter--
the subway.
Plus, how an invasion could affect the global economy
and your wallet.
The end of mandates?
The news today that in the nation's capital masks
won't be needed in restaurants, but while they'll still
be required in schools.
Plus, our new CBS News poll.
Police clear protesters.
A key border crossing reopens but only
after it costs the auto industry nearly $1 billion.
Deadly plane crash.
The search tonight for multiple people after a small plane
disappears off the Coast of North Carolina.
The latest details.
Olympic doping scandal.
Why a Russian teen is allowed to skate
despite failing a drug test.
And if she wins, why there won't be a medal ceremony.
Super Bowl moments.
The touchdowns, the halftime show, and the proposal.
All the highlights from last night's big game.
And a sweet story of a mother building a cookie empire
for children with food allergies.
This is the CBS Evening News with Norah O'Donnell,
reporting from the nation's capital.
Good evening to our viewers in the West,
and thank you for joining us on this Monday night.
This week is consequential.
CBS News has learned the US believes Vladimir Putin could
invade Ukraine by week's end.
The Pentagon says the Russian president hasn't
made a final decision but that should he
choose to, he can move in without,
quote, little or no warning.
That's part of the reason the State Department is
closing the embassy in Kyiv and moving diplomats out
of harm's way.
We learned today that Putin flooded the region
with thousands of more troops, and Russian units in Belarus
moved into attack positions along Ukraine's
northern border.
And while the Russian buildup points
to some kind of military action, President Biden and British
Prime Minister Boris Johnson say a window for diplomacy
remains open.
Invasion fears rattled financial markets and energy experts
warn that a war will push gas prices
even higher than they are now.
CBS's Holly Williams leads off our coverage tonight from Kyiv.
Good evening, Holly.
Good evening, Norah.
The State Department says it's temporarily
closing the US embassy here in Kyiv, Ukraine's capital,
and moving operations to the city of Lviv
near the Polish border as a security measure because
of the, quote, dramatic acceleration
in the buildup of Russian forces.
Putin is ready to invade Ukraine.
He wants to restore the Soviet Union.
Arseniy Yatsenyuk is Ukraine's former prime minister.
And tonight, he put the chance of a Russian invasion at 50%.
It's up to him to decide whether he
wants to be remembered as Adolf Hitler in the global history.
Are you comparing Vladimir Putin to Adolf Hitler?
If he decides to invade Ukraine, this
is the copycat scenario of Adolf Hitler in 1939.
But in Moscow today, perhaps a signal
that President Putin is looking for an off ramp
from this crisis.
Russia's foreign minister urged him
to allow more time for diplomacy in a televised exchange.
Yet Russia's still moving forward
with military drills in Belarus and on the Black Sea.
A US official told CBS News some Russian long-range artillery
and rocket launchers have been moved into firing positions.
Ukraine is now close to being encircled, US officials say,
by roughly 130,000 Russian troops.
The absence of panic in Ukraine is nothing short of surreal,
its people seem determined not to be intimidated.
Commuters calmly made their way to work this morning,
though Kyiv's subway system is also effectively
the city's biggest bomb shelter if there's an attack.
It looks like business as usual, but scratch the surface
and there's worry and a sense of being powerless.
Andriy Tsaplienko is a well-known war correspondent
on Ukrainian TV, reporting on Ukraine's conflict
with Russian-backed separatists.
Thousands of the fallen are honored at this memorial.
You have to be just prepared for this.
Tsaplienko told us a Russian invasion would be a bloodbath.
We fight for ourselves, for our freedom,
and this is the reason--
this is the reason we will fight to the end.
A US official said today that once an attack begins,
knowledge of what's happening will dramatically
decrease because America will have no people on the ground
and no reconnaissance planes in the air.
Norah.
Holly Williams in Kyiv for us tonight.
Thank you.
Well, White House officials today
were on Capitol Hill briefing Congress
on the latest intelligence.
We want to welcome Robert Costa who's
joining CBS News as our chief election and campaign
correspondent.
Today, he's been working the phones on Ukraine.
Robert, welcome.
So what are you learning about the mood inside the White
House?
Talking to lawmakers who spoke to Jake Sullivan
today, heard his briefing, say he's on edge,
the White House is restless.
They wondered, what should they think about Lavrov's comments?
And he said he doesn't buy it yet,
it could be Russian subterfuge.
They're also talking about sanctions.
What's next?
If Russia moves in, the question is, how does the US respond?
The White House right now would like
to see a bipartisan response, but those talks are actually
breaking down on Capitol Hill.
Still TBD.
The war games all going on, but at the same time,
there are some real fears about what impact
this can have on the global economy.
Well, the biggest fear is Ukraine's own economy
if Russia goes in.
Right now, the United States privately
is talking about maybe a $1 billion sovereign loan
guarantee to try to shore up Ukraine's economy
should Russia move in.
Those talks are ongoing.
At the same time, a lot of lawmakers in both parties
worried 2022 on the horizon, you have inflation,
possible Federal Reserve interest rate
hikes coming along the way.
To add war to this whole calculus for the midterms,
everybody's nervous on Capitol Hill.
Yeah, everybody watching closely.
Robert Costa, welcome.
Good to have you.
Thank you.
Great to be here.
And on the pandemic front, the number of new COVID cases
remains in steep decline.
The seven-day average is now just over 175,000,
down more than 78% since the Omicron peak in January.
CBS's Nancy Chen reports COVID has surpassed cancer
now to become the second leading cause of death in the US.
Tonight, as cases continue to drop from the Omicron surge,
the American Academy of Pediatrics
reports the number of new COVID cases among children
is down nearly 53% from last week.
The number of cases in kids is clearly dropping quickly,
just as it is in adults.
Once again, pediatric cases mirror overall cases
among the population.
The AAP also recorded nearly 300,000 child COVID cases
in the last week as parents of children under five
learned they must wait even longer for them
to be vaccinated.
On Friday, Pfizer said it needs more time
to gather trial data before seeking FDA emergency use
authorization.
In Washington, DC today, the mayor
announced some businesses, including bars and restaurants,
will no longer be required to check vaccine
cards starting tomorrow, and the indoor mask mandate
will be dialed back March 1st.
But the requirements for schools and public transit
remain in place.
We have to be nimble if something should change,
like it changed in December with a new very contagious variant.
In the last week, 11 states have made announcements rolling back
their mask mandates.
A CBS News poll shows a majority of Americans
still support state mask mandates,
including Lindsey who didn't want us to use her last name.
The New Yorker is immunocompromised
and says it's too soon to remove mask mandates.
I only go out to do mandatory things.
And then with the lift of restrictions and mandates,
it makes those things even more frightening and risky.
And tonight, we are learning that just over 1,400 New York
City workers were fired on Friday for failing
to comply with the vaccine mandate, that's less than 1%
of the city's workforce.
Norah.
Nancy Chen, thank you.
Well, the Coast Guard tonight is searching the ocean
off the North Carolina coastline after finding a debris field
where a small plane carrying eight people
went down on Sunday.
And this just in-- the local Sheriff's Office
says that the body of one person has been found
and added that there's no indication
that any of the people on board survived.
The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating.
All right.
Tonight, the so-called Freedom Convoy
that shut down the busiest border crossing between the US
and Canada for nearly a week is over,
but those protesting COVID mandates
are still making a mess of streets in places like Ottawa.
And that led Prime Minister Justin Trudeau
to take a rare move invoking emergency powers
to end the demonstrations.
CBS's Kris Van Cleave has all the new details.
A weekend of Canadian police pushing anti-vaccine mandate
protesters away from the border allowed traffic and trade
to resume across the Ambassador Bridge into Detroit Monday.
I believe they got that message out,
and they were able to do it peacefully,
and our community is moving on now.
The border closure caused production disruptions
for automakers costing the industry close to $1
billion automated losses.
The bridge is open.
Are you back in business?
Back in business, I'm not at 100%.
Paul Russo is slowly starting to deliver delayed metal shipments
to Canadian auto plants.
How long do you think it'll take you
to clear out the backlog from just that last week?
About three weeks.
Three weeks?
Yeah, you don't have the driver base.
Where I used to move, say, 30 loads a day to Canada,
I don't have 30 trucks now now.
I got 15.
Being able to drive across the Ambassador Bridge again
is huge for trade.
Every day, this bridge handles more than $320 million
in goods between the US and Canada.
It accounts for about 25% of all trade between the two
countries.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau
is invoking never before used emergency powers
to deal with the continuing protests
in Ottawa and at several border crossings.
Police in Alberta arrested 11 protesters
and seized a cache of weapons, ammo, and body armor.
The border blockade in Emerson is threatening Simon Resch's
Duty Free business.
The blockade, should it persisted,
if at last much longer, it will be the nail in the coffin.
We learned today that Ontario, the province just
across the river from Detroit, will
drop some of its COVID restrictions this week.
Leadership there says it has nothing
to do with the ongoing protests and a group
of American truckers are pledging
a cross-country protest convoy for next month.
Norah.
Kris Van Cleave, thank you.
Well, in Louisville, Kentucky tonight, a suspect
is in custody in connection with a possible assassination
attempt today on a Democratic mayoral candidate, Craig
Greenberg.
Police say a gunman walked into Greenberg's campaign
headquarters and fired multiple shots at the candidate.
One bullet hitting a piece of his clothing.
Police have not determined the motive.
CBS News has learned the FBI is now assisting
with the investigation.
All right.
Now, to the controversy at the Olympics
and the decision to allow Russia's team figure skating
star to compete despite failing a drug test.
Russian athletes are already competing
under the shadow of a state-sponsored doping scandal
from 2014.
CBS's Jamie Yuccas has the latest from Beijing.
Reaction to the decision clearing
Kamila Valieva to compete in this week's solo
event ranged from disappointment to anger with former Olympian
Johnny Weir tweeting, "she should not
be allowed to compete against clean athletes."
The IOC ruled that if the Russian star finishes
in the top three, no flower ceremony and no medal ceremony
will take place in Beijing.
The medal ceremony for last week's team event
in which the Russians finished first ahead of the Americans
is also on hold for now.
You play with fire, you get burned.
And here, Russia strikes again.
Travis Tygart is CEO of the US Anti-Doping Agency.
She's going to be skating with a dark cloud hanging
over her head.
But at the end of the day, other athletes
are there who want the results to be
final at the end of the competition
and have their national anthem played.
We spoke with US figure skater Nathan Chen
last week about potentially losing out on a ceremony.
Regardless of the color of the medal,
I think just knowing, one, that US has a medal, and two,
to be able to share that moment and step on the podium
and go through the whole ceremony together,
it's really special.
Erin Jackson--
Team USA continues to add to its medal count.
Here she comes--
Speed skater Erin Jackson whose friend Brittany Bowe gave up
her own spot so Jackson could compete,
race to gold in the 500 meters, becoming the first Black woman
to win a medal in her sport.
Erin Jackson's meteoric rise to the top.
In another win for Team USA, women's hockey
beat Finland to head to the finals.
It is the sixth time US and its archrival Canada
will battle for the gold.
Norah.
Oh yeah, I'm rooting for the US Women's Hockey Team.
Jamie, thank you.
All right, we go now from the capital of China
to the new capital of the football world, Los Angeles.
The City of Angels is now the City of Champions
after their Los Angeles Rams beat the Cincinnati Bengals
23-20 in Super Bowl LVI.
CBS's Carter Evans has the highlights
of the big game and that historic halftime show.
Pass.
Got it, touchdown.
That's Super Bowl MVP Cooper Kupp
with the game winning touchdown at a showdown straight out
of Hollywood.
Finally, it is time for the Super Bowl.
Los Angeles delivered a star-studded Super Bowl.
Jay Z, Matt Damon, J.Lo, and Ben Affleck in the stands.
West Coast make some noise.
LeBron James was loving every minute
of the ground breaking hip-hop halftime show led
by Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg.
It's the one and only D-R-E.
Dr. Dre--
In the final minute, the game was sealed by Aaron Donald.
I am so happy.
I wanted this so bad.
I dreamed this, man.
I dreamed this, and it's like-- it's surreal.
Look at this--
An emotional victory for so many players and 36-year-old Sean
McVay, now the youngest coach ever to win a Super Bowl.
In addition to the Super Bowl ring, Rams' safety,
Taylor Rapp had an engagement ring
for his longtime girlfriend.
And wide receiver Van Jefferson's wife
went into labor during the game.
By the end of the night, he was holding his newborn son.
Rams' quarterback Matthew Stafford capped off the win
with his girls in a shower of confetti,
a perfect ending for the first Super Bowl
at the Rams' new stadium.
Let's do it again.
Let's do it again next year.
And the city of LA is so proud of this Super Bowl win
that they're actually changing the Hollywood
sign to read Rams' House.
They're also planning a victory parade
to honor the team on Wednesday.
Norah.
I can see the construction already underway.
Carter Evans, thanks.
All right, still ahead on tonight's
CBS Evening News, how a flight attendant saved the day
with a coffee pot after an unruly passenger tried
to storm the cockpit.
Freedom after 44 years behind the bars for a crime
he says he did not commit.
And we remember.
Ivan Reitman the director of Ghostbusters and so many
other classic comedies.
Passengers aboard a flight from LA to DC on Sunday
feared for their lives when an unruly passenger
tried to storm the cockpit.
Well, a quick-thinking American Airlines flight attendant
grabbed a coffee pot and yet bashed the man in the head.
A crowd of people held him down until the plane
made an emergency landing in Kansas City.
All right, breaking tonight.
A man who has proclaimed his innocence for 44 years
is celebrating his freedom.
A Louisiana judge ruled today that Vincent Simmons did not
get a fair trial when he was convicted in 1977
of attempted aggravated rape.
The judge gave Simmons what he'd long
been asking for-- a new trial.
But the district attorney said he won't retry Simmons,
so Simmons went free.
All right, tributes continue to pour
in tonight for producer and director
Ivan Reitman who died unexpectedly on Sunday.
Reitman's numerous credits include the classic comedies
Ghostbusters, Animal House, Kindergarten Cop,
and Space Jam.
Reitman's movie-making son, Jason,
says his dad came from a family of survivors
and he turned his legacy into laughter.
Ivan Reitman was 75 years old.
And coming up-- how a New Jersey mom solved a problem
in the cookie industry and built an empire while she was at it.
If you can't watch the CBS Evening News, you can listen.
Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.
Sponsored by Principal Financial Group.
What better way to end this Valentine's Day
than a sweet story about a mother's love
for her child and cookies.
Here's CBS's Elaine Quijano.
Denise Woodard knows rejection in business.
You were rejected by not one, not two,
but how many investors?
At least 86.
86, that must have hurt.
You know, it was.
I took it pretty personal.
But her mission was personal too.
Years ago, her baby Vivian ate a snack and ended up in the ER.
That's how we learned that she's actually allergic to corn.
And what went through your mind at that point?
I realized that life-threatening food allergies are just
that they're life-threatening and that I
needed to come up with a solution to make
her life a little easier.
Add the water.
Yep.
Vivian is one of an estimated 5.6 million children
in the US with a food allergy.
In 2016, Woodard launched Partake Foods,
a line of allergy friendly cookies
so kids wouldn't feel left out.
But the company struggled until Woodard,
the daughter of Black and Korean parents,
connected with Black investors, including
singer Rihanna and Jay Z's venture capital fund.
Today, 8,000 retailers nationwide carry her products.
What do you hope Vivian learns from watching you?
The fact that she thinks that's normal
and that it's OK and can be celebrated
is what I hope for her.
Too hot?
Tackling challenges baked into the industry
and finding new ingredients for success.
Elaine Quijano, CBS News, New York.
Love a mom-preneur.
We'll be right back.
This portion of the CBS Evening News
is sponsored by Angi, formerly Angi's List.
Your home for everything home.
On tomorrow's CBS Evening News, American innovation,
how a Tennessee middle school is dealing with the growing
teacher shortage.
And a reminder, if you watch us live,
set your DVR so you can watch us later.
I hope you have a Happy Valentine's Day.
I'm Norah O'Donnell in our nation's capital.
Good night.